Add documentation for the RichText component to the Block Editor Handbook (#15956)
WordPress/gutenberg: docs/designers-developers/developers/richtext.md

# RichText Reference

RichText is a component that allows developers to render a [`contenteditable` input](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Editable_content), providing users with the option to format block content to make it bold, italics, linked, or use other formatting.

The RichText component is extremely powerful because it provides built-in functionality you won't find in other components:

* **Consistent Styling in the Admin and Frontend:** The editable container can be set to any block-level element, such as a `div`, `h2` or `p` tag. This allows the styles you apply in style.css to more easily apply on the frontend and admin, without having to rewrite them in editor.css.
* **Cohesive Placeholder Text:** Before the user writes their content, it's easy to include placeholder text that's already styled to match the rest of the block editor.
* **Control Over Formatting Options:** It's possible to dictate exactly which formatting options you want to allow for the RichText field. For example, you can dictate whether to allow the user to make text bold, italics or both.

> Unlike other components that exist in the [Component Reference](/packages/components/README.md) section, RichText lives separately because it only makes sense within the block editor, and not within other areas of WordPress.

Reviewer: Since this will be published on WordPress.org, we should link to the handbook page here instead of linking to GitHub.

```suggestion
Unlike other components that exist in the [Component Reference](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/components/) section, RichText lives separately because it only makes sense within the block editor, and not within other areas of WordPress.
```

Reviewer 2: It’s fine as is. See our guidelines:
https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/document.md#using-links

We should never optimize for the handbook. It has to work on GitHub as well. There might be at least a few weeks delay with updates on WordPress.org when we are waiting for the next major release.

Reviewer 3: This link is fine.

If in doubt, to know whether a link will work in the handbook you can 1) remove the `README.md` part and 2) add it to `https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/` base URL. For example, in this case, navigate to https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor//packages/components/ and notice how it's redirected to the proper URL.

Author: Thanks for all the details. Just to confirm, it sounds like we should leave this one as a relative link without the suggested change. Is that correct?

Reviewer 2: Correct :)

## Property Reference

> For a list of the possible properties to pass your RichText component, [check out the component documentation on Github](/packages/block-editor/src/components/rich-text/README.md).

Reviewer: Let's use the full URL here, since a relative one won't work when this is on WordPress.org.

```suggestion
For a list of the possible properties to pass your RichText component, [check out the component documentation on Github](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/packages/block-editor/src/components/rich-text/README.md).
```

Reviewer 2: Again, it’s perfectly fine as is.

Reviewer 2: Well, maybe not. It’s very unfortunate. Ideally, this should stay as is and the handbook should point to the branch with the current version of WordPress rather than to master which can have features that might even not be published in the olugin.

Reviewer 2: @nosolosw or @chrisvanpatten - any thought how we should approach it? I'm happy to apply the necessary changes to [Devhub](https://make.wordpress.org/docs/handbook/devhub/) and document it.

Reviewer 3: This link won't work (can be checked with the suggestion above).

In general, links to subdirectories of top-level sections aren't exposed in the handbook. We should expose block-editor components in the handbook, and there is https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/issues/15107 to track that. I'm unsure what's the status of that.

For this kind of thing, I see that we're using a link directly to the `master` branch (searched for `master` within the docs folder), so I guess it's OK until we figure how to pin the handbook to a specific version.

Author: For this one it sounds like we need to move forward using the absolute URL suggested by @noisysocks. Is that correct?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should follow what @noisysocks shared.

## Core Blocks Using the RichText Component

There are a number of core blocks using the RichText component. The JavaScript edit function linked below for each block can be used as a best practice reference while creating your own blocks.

* **[Button](/packages/block-library/src/button/edit.js):** RichText is used to enter the button's text.
* **[Heading](/packages/block-library/src/heading/edit.js):** RichText is used to enter the heading's text.
* **[Quote](/packages/block-library/src/quote/edit.js):** RichText is in two places, for both the quotation and citation text.

> * **[Search](/packages/block-library/src/search/edit.js):** RichText is used in two places, for both the label above the search field and the submit button text.

Reviewer: Let's make these four URLs absolute URLs as well.

Reviewer 2: Nope, let’s keep them 😅

Reviewer 2: Or maybe not 🙁 I don’t know anymore. See my other comments.

Author: Let me know which approach you all want me to use on this front. I had followed the guidelines on https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/master/docs/contributors/document.md#using-links, but I'm happy to make these absolute URLs if that makes more sense.

Reviewer 3: Same as https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/15956/files#r290299752 - These should be absolute URLs, as we don't expose the source code in the handbook.

Author: Great, it sounds like we should go ahead and make these absolute links. I can take care of that.

Author: These links have been updated to be absolute URLs. I'll go ahead and mark this as resolved.
